Next up a quick break from the built in array methods like for each and map.
We'll get back to them shortly but first arrow functions arrow functions are a new ish syntax in JavaScript
an alternative way of defining a function expression.
Notice up here.
Internet Explorer is crossed out.
Arrow functions are not supported in i.e. but pretty much everyone uses them these days.
And there are many solutions to make sure code will run in all browsers.
You can write an arrow function and then if it doesn't work in I.T. it'll be turned into some other
code that does work but that's out of the scope of what we're talking about now.
Let's take a look at Aero function syntax.
We write function expressions all the time an anonymous function like this one here we pass into map
or one that we pass into for each.
We do this so much in javascript that it was decided that there should be a more compact syntax for
defining function expressions.
So it's another way of defining a function.
We don't have to write the function keyword.
Instead we write our function like this parentheses and the arrow.
That's where the name comes from.
Arrow function and then curly braces.
Although we'll see that sometimes those braces are actually optional.
So in this video we'll just take a look at a couple simple arrow functions.
Let's try em out over here.
If we wanted to write a function expression without an arrow function we would do something like const
square equals function which accepts some number and it returns X times X to do the same thing with
an arrow function.
I'll comment that one out we would do const square equals parentheses no function keyword x or whatever
our parameter name is.
And then our arrow return x times x.
And if I run my code and I call square of 4 we do get 16.
You can compare the two syntax is here already.
This one is shorter.
We don't have to write functions so much and this makes a big difference when you look at some existing
code bases or some libraries where you pass a lot of functions around you use a lot of callbacks.
If you have function all over the place especially if you have nested callbacks you see function everywhere.
It's like 90 percent of what your code is.
First is when we use aero functions it's a lot cleaner slimmer and easier to understand.
Now error functions were not introduced exclusively because they are more compact or they're easier
on the eye.
There is another difference aside from how we write them.
There is a difference in how they behave around something called the keyword.
This now we haven't talked about this in javascript yet.
We will and when we do will address aero functions but with what we know right now aero functions work
exactly the same way as any other function we can write.
They're just shorter.
So let's try one more.
I'll define a function let's go with is even it accepts one parameter.
We'll call this num we write our arrow and then we'll return num mod to equal equal equal 0 let's call
it doesn't like that I have two squares refresh my code is even of 4.
That's true is even a forty seven is false.
There we go.
One more error function with multiple parameters.
Let's do this is so boring.
But let's do multiply equals.
We write our parents x and y just like we would with a regular function x comma Y.
We just don't write the function keyword and we instead add the arrow and this will return x times Y.
We run multiply of 4 and 7 we get twenty eight.
The next video is going to be all about error functions and how we can sometimes make them even slimmer
and cleaner.
But first I'm just going to show you two rules when you write an error function.
If you only have one parameter you can actually leave the parentheses off so I could rewrite any of
these.
Not this one but square and is even like this those parentheses are optional.
Only when we have one parameter.
So if I run my code is even still works is even of seven is false.
It's even of eight is true.
If we have more than one we have to have those prints.
Otherwise javascript gets confused.
It doesn't know what I'm trying to do here.
And you could see my auto formatted here formatted it oddly and I get an error as soon as I run the
code doesn't know what's going on.
We have to add prints if we have more than one parameter.
If we have one parameter they're optional and it's a matter of personal preference.
I like leaving them off but some style guides.
Some companies you may work with will expect you to add them in and then if we define a function with
no parameters whatsoever like const greets which will just console that log Hello or Hi there.
What do we do here.
We have to have empty parents.
We can't just leave it off.
We need empty parents and it will console log.
Hi.
I'll run my code now.
I call greets and we get high.
So to wrap up the basic rules of an arrow function are that one it behaves just like a function expression
where we declare it with the function keyword.
But we don't have to do that.
This arrow function has no name.
We're simply creating an anonymous function expression using an arrow function.
So we have the arrow.
We have our curly braces.
We return just like a regular function.
We have our parameters but we have a couple options.
If we have no parameters whatsoever we have to have empty prints.
If we have multiple parameters we have to have the prints there.
But if we have one parameter and only one then we can optionally leave them off.
So this or what we had before both are valid.
Next we'll see some nice optimizations how we can actually write an error function without these curly
braces and without having to write return.